docs: add documentation for rebac-authz-webhook (#145)
platform-mesh/platform-mesh.github.io: reference/components/rebac-authz-webhook.md

`rebac-authz-webhook` does not own any CRDs. At runtime it reads `LogicalCluster` (`core.kcp.io`) and `Store` (`core.platform-mesh.io`) resources from kcp, and discovers virtual workspace URLs through `APIExportEndpointSlice`.

## How it fits into Platform Mesh

Platform Mesh separates the responsibilities for identity, tenancy, policy storage, and request-time authorization:

| Component | Role |
| --- | --- |
| [Account operator](./account-operator.md) | Creates the account workspace structure in kcp. |
| [Security operator](./security-operator.md) | Creates OpenFGA stores, authorization models, tuples, and identity configuration. |
| [OpenFGA](./openfga.md) | Stores and evaluates relationship-based authorization data. |
| kcp | Receives Kubernetes API requests and calls the authorization webhook. |
| `rebac-authz-webhook` | Translates kcp authorization reviews into OpenFGA checks. |

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  userRequest["User or service request"] --> kcp["kcp API server"]
  kcp --> sar["SubjectAccessReview"]

>   sar --> webhook["rebac-authz-webhook /authz"]

Reviewer: Hmm just question, we have to be careful here, 

The legacy key authorization.kubernetes.io/cluster-name was deprecated in v0.28.3 with a "will be removed in a future release" note. v0.31 is two minor versions past that deprecation, and based on the [v0.31 release notes](https://www.kubermatic.com/blog/kcp-v0-31-release/)  there's no indication the legacy key has been removed yet. Do we still use that in 0.31 ?

Author: As far as I see we still use that, can create a PR for this this week

  webhook --> workspaceContext["kcp workspace context"]
  workspaceContext --> openfga["OpenFGA authorization store"]
  openfga --> decision["Authorization response"]

>   decision --> kcp

Reviewer: two optional diagram suggestions if you have time:

1. the "How it fits" flowchart only shows runtime path — could add a subgraph for design-time (security-operator → OpenFGA stores) so the "webhook does not create stores/models" bit has something visual to anchor to
2. the TLS section (L166–173) is a 4-step prose list — would render nicely as a `sequenceDiagram`, we have precedent in `reference/components/sharding.md` and `concepts/integration/multi-cluster-runtime.md`

both optional, just makes the page less wall-of-text-y :)

| [multicluster-runtime](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/multicluster-runtime) + [kcp-dev/multicluster-provider](https://github.com/kcp-dev/multicluster-provider) | Provide the multicluster manager used to watch kcp logical clusters. See also [multi-cluster-runtime](./multi-cluster-runtime.md). |
| [kcp-operator](./kcp-operator.md) | Reconciles `RootShard` and `Shard` CRs into running kcp shards, including the `spec.authorization.webhook` configuration that points kcp at this webhook. |
| [OpenFGA](./openfga.md) | The relationship-based authorization engine the webhook delegates `Check` calls to. |

## Authorization model

The webhook accepts JSON `authorization.k8s.io/v1` and `v1beta1` `SubjectAccessReview` requests and returns a JSON `SubjectAccessReview` response.

kcp authenticates the caller before invoking the webhook and sends the resulting user in `spec.user`. The webhook trusts that identity and only decides whether the requested verb and resource are allowed in OpenFGA.

The authorization path has three high-level cases:

| Case | What happens |
| --- | --- |

> | Non-resource requests | Discovery paths such as `/api`, `/openapi`, and `/version` are allowed directly so Kubernetes clients can discover the API surface. |

Reviewer: this row is kinda dead code in our setup actually — our `AuthorizationConfiguration` already filters non-resource SARs with `matchConditions: has(request.resourceAttributes)`, so they never reach the webhook. plus kcp's `AlwaysAllowPaths` sits ahead of us in the chain.

would either drop the row or note its only relevant for clusters that dont set matchConditions

| The `root:orgs` workspace | Requests against the shared organizations workspace are checked against the OpenFGA store named `orgs`. |
| Workspaces under `root:orgs` | Requests against organization and account workspaces (for example `root:orgs:default` or `root:orgs:default:foo`) are checked against that organization's OpenFGA store. |

> The webhook returns `allowed: true` when OpenFGA authorizes the request. Otherwise it returns `allowed: false` without setting `denied: true`, which kcp treats as "no opinion" and resolves through the rest of the authorizer chain.

Reviewer: small thing — the "no opinion" line is a bit misleading. webhook is the last authorizer in our chain (after RBAC and Node, see [kcp/identity-and-authorization](./kcp/identity-and-authorization.md)). so a no-opinion result is effectively a deny in our setup, no later authorizer can flip it. would just call that out so readers dont think theres a fallback path

```suggestion
The webhook returns `allowed: true` when OpenFGA authorizes the request. Otherwise it returns `allowed: false` without setting `denied: true` ("no opinion"). Note: the webhook is the last authorizer in Platform Mesh's chain (after RBAC and Node — see [kcp/identity-and-authorization](./kcp/identity-and-authorization.md)), so a no-opinion result is effectively a deny.
```

Author: Changed

### Workspace context

Platform Mesh authorization is workspace-aware. The webhook uses kcp information to understand whether a request targets the shared `root:orgs` workspace or a workspace below `root:orgs:*`.

For account workspaces, the webhook keeps a cache of workspace context. This cache links a logical cluster to the corresponding organization, account, REST mapping, and OpenFGA store ID. That context lets the webhook evaluate Kubernetes verbs such as `get`, `create`, `list`, `watch`, `update`, `patch`, and `delete` against the correct authorization model.

### Relationship-based checks

OpenFGA stores the relationship graph for organizations, accounts, namespaces, and resources. The webhook turns the Kubernetes request into an OpenFGA check using the requesting user, the requested verb, the resource type, and the workspace context. For account workspaces, the request can also include contextual parent relationships so OpenFGA can evaluate inherited permissions.

## kcp and OpenFGA integration

> The webhook needs access to the root kcp API server for discovery. It discovers `APIExportEndpointSlice` objects from the root API server and then uses the virtual workspace URLs from those endpoint slices for per-logical-cluster access.

Reviewer: tiny correction — `APIExportEndpointSlice` is per-shard, not per-logical-cluster. each entry is one shard's virtual-workspace URL, and each VW endpoint already aggregates across all bound consumer workspaces. the per-cluster split happens consumer-side via multicluster-runtime

```suggestion
The webhook needs access to the root kcp API server for discovery. It reads the `APIExportEndpointSlice` (default `core.platform-mesh.io`) from the root API server; the slice enumerates one virtual-workspace URL per kcp shard. The webhook connects to those URLs and uses the multicluster manager (multicluster-runtime + kcp-dev/multicluster-provider) to partition the resulting stream by logical cluster.
```

The default endpoint slice name is `core.platform-mesh.io`. This can be overridden with `--kcp-api-export-endpoint-slice-name`.

> At startup the webhook:

Reviewer: the "At startup the webhook: 1...2...3...4..." reads more like a how-to than reference imo. siblings like `security-operator.md` and `account-operator.md` use tables for similar content.

would prefer something like:

```suggestion
### Startup dependencies

`rebac-authz-webhook` reads the following resources at startup. If a required resource is absent, the process exits.

| Resource | Kind | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| value of `--kcp-api-export-endpoint-slice-name` (default `core.platform-mesh.io`) | `APIExportEndpointSlice` | Per-shard virtual-workspace URLs the webhook connects to. |
| `cluster` in `root:orgs` | `LogicalCluster` (`core.kcp.io/v1alpha1`) | The self-object for `root:orgs`; anchors the workspace context cache. |
| Store named `orgs` | `Store` (`core.platform-mesh.io`) | Required: the shared OpenFGA store for `root:orgs`. Process exits if missing. |
| Per-organization stores | `Store` (`core.platform-mesh.io`, in `root:orgs`) | Cluster cache uses `status.storeId` to route account-workspace checks to the right OpenFGA store. |
```

| `services.rebac-authz-webhook.values.certManager.createCA` | `true` |
| `services.rebac-authz-webhook.imageResources[].annotations.for` | `rebac-authz-webhook` |

The `infra` chart configures kcp to call the webhook:

| Value | Default |
| --- | --- |
| `kcp.webhook.enabled` | `true` |
| `kcp.webhook.server` | `https://rebac-authz-webhook.platform-mesh-system.svc.cluster.local:9443/authz` |
| `kcp.webhook.authorizationWebhookSecretName` | `kcp-webhook-secret` |
| `kcp.webhook.port` | `9443` |
| `kcp.webhook.version` | `v1` |

The infra chart templates these values into the `RootShard` and `Shard` custom resources (`operator.kcp.io/v1alpha1`) under `spec.authorization.webhook.{configSecretName,version}`. The [kcp-operator](./kcp-operator.md) reconciles those CRs into the running kcp shards.

At runtime, kcp loads `kcp-webhook-secret` and calls its `/authz` URL for authorization decisions. The CA bundle in that kubeconfig is filled in by the Platform Mesh operator, as described in [TLS and trust](#tls-and-trust). The chart's own `certificates.create` is left at `false` because the certificate is issued by the Platform Mesh operator.

## Local setup notes

> The component ships in the standard Platform Mesh local setup; see [`helm-charts/local-setup`](https://github.com/platform-mesh/helm-charts/tree/main/local-setup). The local `PlatformMesh` overlay enables `hostAliases` for kcp host name resolution. OpenFGA and the Security operator must be healthy before the webhook can return useful authorization decisions.

Reviewer: this section drifts into how-to. we already have `/how-to-guides/set-up-platform-mesh-locally.md` for the local stack. would just link to it instead. siblings like `openfga.md` and `kcp-operator.md` cross-link rather than restate

```suggestion
For local setup, see [Set up Platform Mesh locally](/how-to-guides/set-up-platform-mesh-locally.md). The webhook ships with the standard local stack and depends on OpenFGA and the Security operator being healthy before it can return useful authorization decisions.
```

> ## Operations

Reviewer: Operations is troubleshooting, not reference. The bulleted "dependency chain for debugging" is procedural triage guidance — exactly how-to-guide material.

I would suggest to:
    
 **Move to how-to** -> Lift the bullets into a new section in /how-to-guides/troubleshoot-local-setup.md (or a new troubleshoot-authorization.md) and replace this section with a one-line cross-reference.

Author: They are not that important, I removed them

- `kcp-webhook-secret` must point to `https://rebac-authz-webhook.platform-mesh-system.svc.cluster.local:9443/authz`.
- The `rebac-authz-webhook` Service must be reachable on port `9443`.
- The pod needs a valid root kcp kubeconfig and access to the configured `APIExportEndpointSlice` (default `core.platform-mesh.io`).
- OpenFGA must be reachable at the configured address. An OpenFGA store named `orgs` must exist before the webhook starts; otherwise the process exits.
- Organization `Store` resources should have `status.storeId` populated before account workspace requests can be evaluated.

If the webhook returns no opinion (`allowed: false` without `denied: true`), it means this webhook did not allow the request; kcp's final decision depends on the rest of its authorizer chain, not on an explicit deny from the webhook.

## Repository

- [platform-mesh/rebac-authz-webhook](https://github.com/platform-mesh/rebac-authz-webhook)
- [platform-mesh/helm-charts](https://github.com/platform-mesh/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/rebac-authz-webhook)

## Related

- [OpenFGA](./openfga.md)
- [Security operator](./security-operator.md)
- [Account operator](./account-operator.md)

> - [kcp](./kcp.md)

Reviewer: can we also link `./kcp/identity-and-authorization.md` here? thats where the actual `AuthorizationConfiguration` YAML lives (failurePolicy, subjectAccessReviewVersion, kubeconfig wiring) — readers will want to land there

```suggestion
- [Identity and authorization](../../concepts/identity-and-authorization.md)
- [kcp identity and authorization](./kcp/identity-and-authorization.md)
```
